Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn about sub pages.
Let's begin by asking the question what is a subpage.
All right so here we see the home page of my public Web site and if I use the navigation to visit my
About Us page here we see the page that I was working on in the previous lesson.
And now in this lesson.
Let's imagine.
I want to add another couple of new pages that belong to the About Us page or that are highly related
to the About Us page.
So for example in this lesson maybe I want to create a new page named our history and maybe I want to
create another new page named how we work.
So in that case the About Us page would be the parent page and then our history would be its child and
how we work would also be a child page that belongs to about us.
Okay that's enough talking.
Now let's get our hands dirty and actually try to create a sub page.
So I will use this link to navigate to my admin dashboard area.
I want to create a new page.
So in the sidebar I will look for pages and then click add new.
I will give this new page a title of our history for the content.
I will just paste in a bit of Lorem some filler dummy content.
And now here is the important part.
Over on the right hand side of the page.
Notice this page attributes box.
The first option we see here is named parent.
If I click on this field I can choose between any of my currently existing pages so I will choose about
us and that's my way of telling WordPress that this brand new Our history page should be considered
the child of the About Us page right.
The About Us page is the parent page.
All right so let's go ahead and click the blue publish button.
And now if we look within our main lefthand menu and click on pages again this screen will always show
us a list of all of our pages.
Notice that the new page that we just created our history has these two dashes in front of it and it's
listed right underneath the About Us page.
WordPress does this so that when we look at a list of all of our pages we can immediately tell which
pages belong to other pages.
So the dashes create a bit of indentation which implies that this page is kind of nested within this
page or that this page belongs to this page.
OK now at this point why don't we jump back to our public facing web site and navigate to our About
Us page.
And I want to point out that currently this page does not include a link to the new.
Our history page.
Now remember every theme is different.
Some themes do indeed show links to all of the children pages when you are viewing a parent page but
a lot of themes do not.
So for example I'm using the 2016 theme and it doesn't automatically list the children links anywhere.
So in this case it's up to us to create that link manually.
So for the remainder of this lesson we have two main goals.
Goal number one will be to add a link in our main navigation menu so that when you hover over about
us a little dropdown menu appears right about here with links to any of the child pages that belong
to about us.
OK so that's goal number one and then Goal number two is to learn how to create links within the main
paragraphs of content on a page.
OK let's start with the main navigation menu golpe.
So I'm going to jump back to my admin dashboard and in the left hand menu I will look for appearance
and then I'm interested in menus.
OK so here we can see where a menu it currently consists of these three links.
And over here we can see a list of all available pages on our Web site.
So here we see the brand new Our history page.
So I will just check that and then click add to menu all right only I don't want my our history page
to be treated like a major top level link like these three pages I want our history to be nested within
about us.
So it's as easy as just clicking and dragging our history to be right about here.
And then just drag a little bit to the right and wordpress will know what you're trying to do.
And that little bit of indentation here implies that this page belongs to this page.
All right so let's go ahead and click the blue save menu button.
And if I use this link in the top left corner to switch back to the public Web site within our main
navigation we can now see this little downward facing arrow.
And if I hover over about us we see our history.
Perfect.
So I can click that to visit that page and practice makes perfect.
So why don't we create another new page named how we work and also set it to be a child page of about
us.
So let's jump back to our admin area.
Under pages Let's click add new for the title.
I will say how we work for the content.
I'll just paste in a bit of dummy filler text and over here within the right hand column.
Even though the current theme we're using doesn't really make use of the parent child relationship.
I still want to let WordPress know that I consider this page to be a child of about us because it will
help me stay organized when I view a list of all pages in the admin area and if we ever switched to
a new theme in the future maybe that theme will make use of the parent child relationship out of the
box.
OK so let's publish this new page.
Now if I switched over to the public Web site we wouldn't see a link to this new page anywhere.
So now let's manually add a link to this new page in our main navigation menu.
So over on the left hand side bar under appearance let's click on menus.
Again here's a list of all of our pages.
Here's the new how we work that we just created.
So let's check that and then click add to menu and then I'm just going to click and drag this new page
so that it lives under about us.
Perfect.
So that little bit of indentation implies that it belongs to about us.
Let's say this menu and jump back to our public facing Web site.
So now I can click on about us and if I hover over about us we have our two child pages.
OK.
So that takes care of the navigation menu.
Let's change gears now and work on our final goal for this lesson and that is learning how to add links
to other pages within the main paragraph text or content of a page.
So for example maybe on this main About Us page let's imagine I want to add a new paragraph down here
and within that paragraph I want to have links to each of the new child pages and also maybe a link
to the Contact Us page.
So if I want to edit the page that I'm currently viewing up in the top bar I can just make use of this
edit page button.
OK within this main content field but scroll down to the very bottom I'll place my cursor at the end
of the text and then hit enter to get to a new line and I will say our company is very interesting.
You can learn about our history and you can also learn more about how we work.
If you would like to work with us.
Be sure to visit our contact page.
OK.
Now watch how easy it is to create links out of certain phrases within this paragraph.
So within this sentence you can learn more about our history.
I want our in history to be a link to the our history page.
So I just highlight that little bit of text and then up in this menu look for this icon when I hover
over this icon it says insert or edit link.
So if I click that then down here this new menu appears and it says paste you Arel or type to search.
So what Wordpress is doing here is it's asking us where do you want visitors to be taken when they click
this link.
Now I'm not a robot so I haven't memorized the you are Elle's of all of my pages.
So that's why WordPress will let me search here.
So if I just begin searching for my our history page as I begin typing that WordPress tries to guess
what I'm looking for.
And you can see here it guessed correctly so I will just click on our history and then it fills in the
U R L to that page.
So now I can just click this blue button and we successfully created a link.
So now I can just click anywhere else on the page to make this menu disappear.
And practice makes perfect.
So let's do the same thing for how we work.
So I highlight those words that I want to turn into a link and then up in this menu I use this icon.
Now down within this menu I just start typing for the page I'm looking for so how and wordpress.
Note that this is probably what I'm looking for.
So just click on that then click this blue apply icon OK.
And finally I want to illustrate that it's not like you can only link to children pages.
You can link to any page and you can even link to other web sites so we could link to Google or Facebook.
You get the idea but the point is we can definitely link to our contact page even though the contact
page doesn't have anything to do with the About Us page.
So let me select Contact page and with that highlighted use this icon to pull up this menu and begin
typing.
Contact us.
This is the result I want so I click on that click the blue apply button and we're in business so I'm
happy with these changes.
I will use the blue update button in the right and call them up.
Here we see this page was successfully created message and I can use that view page linked to go directly
to that page about us and if we scroll down here we see that new paragraph let's test out the links.
So I would click on our history works perfectly if I go back to about us I can test out how we work.
That link works as well.
If I go back to about us and test out the contact page link that works as well.
And in addition to those paragraphed links we still have our trusty main navigation dropdown menu.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close.
I encourage you to experiment by creating your own new pages setting them up with the parent child relationship
and then creating your own dropdown menus within the admin.
Appearance menu screen practicing constantly experimenting is really the best way to really let this
material sink in.
OK.
Now in our next lesson we will learn how to create a photo gallery page with a nice grid of thumbnail
images and when you click on one you'll be able to view the larger version of the photograph.
It should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.